you know what's on my mind it's become
really popular for people to try to shut
each other down when they say like I'm
depressed I'm unemployed I have a broken
leg and they say Oh first of all
problems
you know we saw NECN doing that where
it's like how can you say you're
depressed when there are other people
living in a bomb crater you know that
yeah but like okay let's say let's say
you know we're in Canada and I say you
know I'm trying to build a suspension
bridge that links you know the two sides
of this chasm Oh first world problems
that when I lived in a third-world
country we didn't have a suspension
bridge we just trained a bunch of
elephants to stand in a row and put
planks of wood over their backs and then
drive our motorcycles over that we
didn't built like what you know how how
is it useful for anyone to pretend like
my problems don't matter or that I don't
have to solve them just because
somewhere else in the world
hypothetically somebody has an even
worse problem like how it's wildly
spurious you know it's it's in the
truest sense of the word of fusca Tory
it is of fusca Tory like okay look I'm
trying to build this suspension bridge
do you want to help me or not like
that's that's a great story it's a true
story by the way it's a great story that
in Laos well allows us being bombed by
the Americans they didn't have a bridge
and they trained a bunch of elephants to
form a temporary bridge we actually we
did that in Laos that's yes it's pride
in what it's a minor anecdote from the
Lao working for that's that's why we
want this Wow
look something very that kind of edgy
duty I mean it's you know but like you
know people are depressed the people are
unemployed and people are struggling
with real-world real-life problems and
you know okay like so even within like
even within Canada you know it's really
really sad that a lot of people of a
university diploma
and then have to struggle to get a job
where he might a counter at a 7-eleven
or something else like that what good
does it how does it fans the
conversation or they say old
firstworldproblems like is the point
that you should be happy just to work at
a 7-eleven even if you're overqualified
for that but that's wrong yeah like can
we just admit that is manifestly wrong I
knew a guy he's still here he's someone
he's here in China right now he's a
white guy living in China and he
completed his PhD in history in the
United States of America so let's all be
clear like even if you go to the place
of the cheapest tuition in America
that's a lot it's a lot of money as well
as a lot of time to get a PhD in the
United States of America even if you're
doing Community College or something but
anyway he got a PhD in history and then
after that the only job he could get was
sitting in a cubicle at a parking lot
you know with the parking where the cars
drive in and out and you you know you
taking any money and you know surprise
surprise he was getting depressed and
suicidal and now that was a different
era that would have been a couple
decades ago and when people said to
almost oh just just don't mention that
you have a PhD just leave it off your
resume or like just don't feel
how does this help but even that that's
less nauseous that's less terrible than
like Oh hashtag first world problems why
don't you tell that to the people who
are starving in a war zone in Yemen well
you know like okay I've done some
humanitarian work in some third-world
countries you know what you know what
like the surprising irony is I think if
you actually sit they don't have a
conversation about this with people in
Yemen or people in Cambodia I think they
actually can relate it's not hard for
them to understand the struggle of like
wow you put in all these years you got a
PhD in history and now you're stuck
working in a cubicle a tarp argument
biess even if I just use those two
examples just lotions and Cambodians
they can understand that struggle they
can relate to that struggle and you know
maybe you can relate to their struggle
to you know like you got nothing to say
on this you have no pent-up rage about
the the first world problems
no have you have you dealt with this or
no if you dealt with this either in real
life or on facebook or in the gray area
halfway between real life and facebook
but people problems but people don't
throw that in your face when you
complain about your own life for your
own situation you said you're trying to
build a suspension bridge they're like
ooh are you gonna use rope white girl
your first world rope that you got from
the Rope store when I was your age I had
to go down to a battlefield and scavenge
rope from a dead body okay anyway you
know it's weird like you know I've said
before when I enrolled in university I
was interested in studying economics
because I wanted to study the philosophy
of poverty I was really interested in
poverty I was really interested in
post-war disaster areas and poverty and
terrible conditions I really was
positively interested in that in terms
of studying it in terms of helping in
terms of humanitarian working you know
that was so that was me and what was
that 17 or something when you apply to
go to university I don't even know what
that is 17 or whatever but you know
starting from starting from podunk
ignorance as a teenager you know I was I
was really interested in that stuff I
felt there was a lot I felt that I had a
lot to learn from poverty and post-war
devastation and humanitarian product
projects and reconstruction and you know
I mean I did I did but my feeling that I
had a lot to learn from the struggles of
the four and then maybe I could
contribute positive that through some
kind of humanity remark I didn't see
that as a way to snub and shut down
middle class white people like that to
me makes makes no sense at all to keep
things in perspective I don't know if
you got to wake up and go to work at
that cubicle by the parking lot if you
got to wake up and go to work at
7-eleven you know I think you need to be
in touch with your anger you know your
sense of dissatisfaction your sense of
ambition
what's wrong with ambition why vilify
ambition easy ambition a first-world
problem I don't think so
think you know I think am I you know
either you're either you were for it or
against it hashtag ambition that's a
good hashtag first world ambition yeah
yeah well that specific example but I
can see people complaining about things
in American life so yeah really like
this is a first world problem like yeah
I just what came to my mind was one year
the weather was really terrible in
Michigan and where I was living the the
driveway was just a dirt road right so
the the snow cover was really uneven and
it it had thawed and then frozen so when
you shovel it you get like a mix of mud
and ice but one day I got out of my car
and um I had my I had my phone in my
pocket because like first I got on my
car second I got my even this I disagree
with even this I disagree with because
we're talking about this earlier you
think people in Laos can't relate to
that you think people in Cambodia can't
relate to that seriously people in third
world conditions have cell phones
seriously I think that story like as
silly as it is as a frustration life I
think there are tons of people in third
world countries who will relate to that
right away and be able to tell their own
story about that like ice mentioned an
earlier video like Laos isn't in extreme
poverty anymore it's now in this period
of like moderate poverty but like
they're in most of these countries there
are people who are poor and they're
struggling to survive but they own a
cell phone and very often they even own
a motorcycle there's still poor they're
out there hustling but like these this
is not some strange and amazing Western
technology you know people all kinds of
third-world countries that's the case
you know very often the cell phone is
the one technology that they used to get
a job and get a girlfriend
everything else like they mean they
don't know their own apartment they're
still living with their parents there
are 20 people sharing a crowded
apartment whatever but they have a
cellphone right so I mean no I think
better you say even that story
I really would object that being first
real problems if anything that funny
experience is dropping your phone that's
you know that bridges the divide that's
something people in third world
countries absolutely could relate to and
would make life in America seem like
it's not so different whether you're
talking about third world countries in a
cold climate or Hama let's ban hashtag
first world problem ban it